hi and I'm the inventor of the lazy
Daisy Viking in Joule today I'd like to
share with you several techniques for
finishing your Viking net wave the first
technique I'll show you is very simple
we will cut off the draw handles and you
want to clean up any of the raw cut
particles that might be on the end of it
and we'll also trim this end as well
okay so there's our raw Viking it so on
this particular finishing technique I'm
going to insert a 20 gauge wire through
the entire weave and to do that I'm
going to start by making a wire wrap
loop on one end of the wire so I'm going
to add my end cap onto the wire and then
each end of my Viking net weave I'm just
going to gently press it just to make
sure that it's going to go into my end
cap and then I'm just going to insert
the 20 gauge wire into the weave and
sometimes it's best to just twist the
weave gently to get that wire through
there and there we go so that's going to
be on one end and then all we will need
to do is add the additional end cap it's
gone to the other side and snug it up
and then we will just finish by putting
a wire wrap loop on the second end this
gives it stability especially in the in
the case of if you want a bracelet to
stay a little bit more strength in there
and it also allows you if you wanted to
form this at some point you could
actually form it because you have that
20 gauge wire inside the second
finishing technique I'd like to share
with you is basically the same but we're
not going to run a wire through the
entire Viking knit we're going to leave
it so it's flexible and just put the end
caps on each side and we're going to use
some little wire wrapped in caps that we
made with our little coiling tool if
you're not familiar with the coiling
tool this is our coiling tool it's just
basically a crank and all we're going to
do is we're going to take some wire and
you'll attach the wire at one end just
like that and then you're just going to
hold it in your hand and start cranking
it around it's a very simple technique
and I have one here that's finished so
this is our little finished coil we're
going to take our quarter inch lazy
Daisy tool and at the end of the tool
there's a hole in the bottom and that's
where we're going to insert a 20 gauge
wire and just insert that wire oops
into the weave it just sticks out maybe
an inch or so and then we're just going
to start cranking it around and it
doesn't matter how many times you turn I
usually go four or five times then I'm
going to add that coil that I made and
then I'm just going to continue to twist
it around and then we have a coiled end
cap and you can add an embellishment
here or you can just make a curl there
to close it off so now what I'm going to
do is I'm going to take 20 gauge wire
it's about six inches of 20 gauge wire
and I'm only going to insert it into the
last quarter inch of the Viking net as
opposed to the other method where I went
through the entire thing now I'm just
going to put it in the last quarter inch
of the of the weave I'm going to bend it
up and I'm just going to make one little
wrap just to hold it in place and then
we'll trim that
then we'll just be putting our Viking
knit our coiled end cap over the end of
it and then inserting a bead on top just
to be decorative and it will fit like
that and then we will again do the wire
wrapped loops on the end and now we have
a very flexible Viking knit with our end
caps attached well thank you for joining
me today I hope you've learned some of
these new techniques and you'll be able
to go on and make some really beautiful
jewelry